hbase-ruby is a pure ruby client for HBase (http://hadoop.apache.org/hbase) that works with the HBase Stargate interface.
Stargate is the RESTful web service front end for HBase that can serve up a number of formats including XML, JSON, and protobufs.

This was originally created by Dingding Ye <yedingding@gmail.com> at http://github.com/sishen/hbase-ruby


h2. Versions

* **"hbase-0.20.1 version" - rewritten for Stargate**: http://github.com/greglu/hbase-ruby/tree/master
* **"hbase-0.20dev version"**: http://github.com/sishen/hbase-ruby/tree/master
* **"hbase-0.19 version"**: http://github.com/sishen/hbase-ruby/tree/hbase-0.19


h2. Installation

<pre>
<code>$ gem install hbase-ruby -s http://gemcutter.org</code>
</pre>

To work with this gem in your Rails application, add this to the environment.rb file:
<pre><code>config.gem 'hbase-ruby', :lib => "hbase", :source => "http://gemcutter.org"</code></pre>

To build the gem yourself:
<pre><code>$ rake gem</code></pre>


h2. Getting Started

 # Download and unpack the most recent release of HBase from http://hadoop.apache.org/hbase/releases.html#Download
 # Edit <hbase-dir>/conf/hbase-env.sh and uncomment/modify the following line to correspond to your Java home path:
export JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-sun
 # Copy <hbase-dir>/contrib/stargate/hbase-<version>-stargate.jar into <hbase-dir>/lib
 # Copy all the files in the <hbase-dir>/contrib/stargate/lib folder into <hbase-dir>/lib
 # Start up HBase:
$ <hbase-dir>/bin/start-hbase.sh
 # Start up Stargate (append "-p 1234" at the end if you want to change the port):
$ <hbase-dir>/bin/hbase org.apache.hadoop.hbase.stargate.Main


h2. Usage

Here are some examples:

<pre><code>
require 'hbase'

client = HBase::Client.new("http://localhost:8080") # this url is the default for stargate.

# Table Operation
tables = client.list_tables                              # list available tables
table = client.create_table('users', 'habbit')           # create a table whose column_family is habbit
table = client.show_table('users')                       # show the meta info of table users 
client.delete_table('users')                             # delete 'users' table

# Row Operation
row = client.show_row('users', 'sishen')                 # show the data of row 'sishen' in table 'users'
row2 = client.create_row('users', 'sishen', Time.now.to_i, {:name => 'habbit:football', :value => 'i like football'}) # create the row 'sishen' with the data in the table 'users'
client.delete_row('users', 'sishen', nil, 'habbit:football')  # delete the row 'sishen' of table 'users' with the optional column 'habbit:football'

# Scanner Operation
scanner = client.open_scanner('users', {:start_row => "row2", :batch => 5, :columns => ["habbit:"]}) # See more options from HBase::Model::Scanner.AVAILABLE_OPTS
rows = client.get_rows(scanner)
client.close_scanner(scanner)
</code></pre>


h2. Testing

Run the specs with the following rake task:

$ rake spec

or pass it the URL to the HBase Stargate server as an argument:

$ rake spec HBASE_URL=http://localhost:8080


h2. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2008 Dingding Ye <yedingding@gmail.com>
Distributed under MIT License
